# A Circus of attachments


"It's harder to accept the truth when the lies were exactly what you wanted to hear"
The biggest lesson I have learned is this one quote. I have been a child my entire life, while being an adult, I am still a child. I still high five the leaves every time I pass by them as if they understand my gesture, I still look into the sky and hope to reach a distant star. It seems time is not what defines your age. 25 years while being a long time, it doesn't quantify how well attuned we are with the world. I have been aloof for a long time. Not cold, just aloof. People mistook my aloofness for maturity. When maturity itself is relative. Age is not relative to maturity at all it seems.

Cold as it may sound, the world has been a circus for me. In this circus, I have been a naive child, struggling to understand what it means to be in this circus. What is life ? What is death? What is God? Why am I here? What purpose do I have? As it turns out there is no purpose for anything at all. We choose to give purpose to whatever we may find most relevant. These thoughts have always been in my mind. I have been a logical thinker, thinking about everyone's well being. Why should everyone be well? So that I can see them and get a sense of what wellness means? Is that good enough a reason? Honestly I don't know. I don't know what I do and why I do it. My mind has been more puzzling to me than anyone else's. Give a meaning and move on is what everything has been doing but I am here stuck with very primitive thoughts that people move away from. Should you move on ? Yes, ofcourse. I am unable to though. I am okay with not knowing things, instead of giving meaning to these things, but I will always pursue trying to know them more and more, layer by layer.

In this circus though I had no attachments. So it became even more puzzling why would I do good for people? Hey, it's okay to not be attached and do good. But I never knew it would be painful to be attached. At a very young age, I gave up on being attached. I was an adult in a young body. That's what all the monks do, right? Let's get away from the world and live without any attachments. No attachment, no pain, no suffering. While I meditate, I never accepted this concept very well. It felt like running away. I remember consulting a therapist for not getting attached with people and not having any emotions. I had no trouble empathizing with them but I could never get attached to anyone. It felt very inhuman. A blank canvas with nothing painted on. So given the circumstances, I would either become a very good person or a very bad one. Thankfully, I was able to get attached. Without the experience that people may have had at a very young age with attachments, I had been a kid in that respect. So I messed up. Given how introverted I had been, and how much I don't like to speak about someone else, I didn't even care about talking to someone about it to help me out. I am thankful for the things that have happened to me because I did deserve them. I was unable to see beyond my own attachments, I was unable to see beyond what I had been seeing. In chess if something is pinned by the other person, you are more than likely to concentrate on that rather than seeing a better move right before your eyes. I don't know how long it would take for me to forgive myself, perhaps never. Since I could not get attached, I never thought of getting into a relationship. While I got into one, being totally detached from the other person. And messing that up in a really special way.

I know a bit better now. While people have been making these mistakes over and over as children, I always questioned them as to why? They saw me as a mature person, but I was never attached leading to my puzzled question. You may want everything good for the person you are attached with, but the inability to understand them can lead to them suffering with you. It becomes ironical, to say the least. At such times, letting go is all you can and should do. Recognizing when to let go was also a puzzle, as I had not been attached. Is letting go the same as letting go of your attachments? I don't quite think so now. **Recognizing when to let go is a way of managing your attachments.** With the one single experience of such attachments, I cannot claim to be an expert. If you do not let go of certain things at the right time, it becomes an absolute mess. And if you miss that crucial moment of letting go, there is no going back. I wish I could go back, but it seems it's too late.

The classic quote saying "You can only clap with two hands" signifying that there are always two people who do wrong. No! It's not true. There is usually one person who does more wrong than the other or there may be only one person who did all the wrongs. Me in this case. But it's also a matter of perspective. So there are a few questions I need to have prepared for such a situation.

-   Is it oneself who is overthinking and causing the situation to be bad.
    -   If it is, then you need to let go and focus on something else
-   Are you able to recognize what is going wrong in a situation.
    -   If you are. Can you do something individually about it or does it **really** concern the other person?
        -   If you can, do that first
        -   If it **really really** concerns the other person, then try doing the next step
    -   If not, given the circumstances, is it okay to have a discussion trying to recognize the same?
        -   If it seems okay, go ahead. But if there is resistance, stop and reevaluate.
        -   If the circumstances don't allow, it may be good to either park the issue for later. Or it may be better to ignore it. If unable to ignore it, it maybe better to take some time off.

All good hierarchies, All suggested by someone with enough experience, All these suggestions were ignored. Heck, I even got the right feedbacks from time to time which I could not accept because they were not given at the time I created a safe space for them to be told (which was childish). Which brings me back to my first point. It's harder to accept the truth when the lies were exactly what you wanted to hear. We may want to hear we are good, but it's unreasonable to expect that, if we may have hurt someone.

Truly, I am sorry since I did not know how to handle attachment. Ironical being detached I gave the best advices, but being attached I made the worst choices. But aren't we all hypocrites at some point or another? Thankfully, I got attached to the best and learnt from the best, but could not show my gratitude to the best. Neither could I apologize to the best since all my apologize are now seemingly lies. All the lessons were being taught with proper hand holding, but my ears were deaf back then. All I can do now is respect them, their decision and move on. Which honestly wasn't easy, I loudly struggled, doing more damage to what could have been saved.

Thankfully, I was taught another important lesson "You cannot have everything". With this one thing in mind, I will let go but still hope someday things do change for better which may perhaps never happen. But I won't do any more wrongs here. I do cherish the good moments of the past and hate the bad moments that I created.

General Advice would be: Forget it or someway to distract yourself? I put a lot of thought into it but no. I better remember it. I will not remain in the past but I will continue to draw the most important lessons from it all the time. And each lesson has a reference in the past, that should help me not make the same mistakes again.

But i am moving on from a bond that I desperately don't want to lose, as there is no way to be forgiven, as it won't do anyone any good if I don't, as it would only hurt the other person more and as there is so much more to life than sulk over your failures. We are taught that + and - are opposites of each other. But honestly you cannot undo your sins by doing good. No amount of success can undo those failures but all we can do is hope to succeed to the very top in every aspect, while avoiding failures as much as possible. Being humans, let's not excuse us for our mistakes but let's not give them so much importance that they drown us to madness.
